Protein spots, such as immunoglobulin G (IgG), A (IgA) or alpha 2-macroglobulin, on the patterns of non-denaturing two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (2-D PAGE) were selectively removed by the application of protein A or antibody-conjugated protein A agarose to the first-dimension gel top at the cathode side. A protein residing at pI 5.8 and with a molecular mass of about 200 kDa was clearly detected when the IgG and IgA spots were removed from the 2-D PAGE pattern.
This study presents a new assay based on the binding of anthroyloxy-stearates to albumin and the change in the fluorescence intensity when these fluorescent probes are bound to the protein. This assay permits the quantification of the albumin monomers present in a mixture of monomers and polymers, and allows to check the integrity of albumin after pasteurisation.
The relationship between cell function and surface marker expression is a subject of active investigation in biology and medicine. These investigations require separating cells of a homogeneous subset into multiple fractions of varying marker expression. We have developed a novel cell sorter, the dipole magnet flow sorter (DMFS), which separates selected T lymphocyte subpopulations, targeted by immunomagnetic colloid, into multiple fractions according to cell surface marker expression, as determined by flow cytometry. A narrow stream of cells is introduced into a sheath of carrier fluid in a rectangular channel while subjected to a perpendicular magnetic force. The special design of the pole pieces ensures a constant magnetic force acting on the magnetically labeled cells in the separation area. Cells are spread across the flow in relation to their magnetophoretic mobility. Separation is achieved by control of the positions of the effluent stream boundaries, which separate fluid volumes with cells of different magnetophoretic mobility. CD4 and CD8 T lymphocytes labeled with primary antibody-fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC) conjugate and anti-FITC-magnetic colloid are the chosen cell systems. Flow cytometry analysis shows that, for CD4 cells, a three-fold increase in total marker number per cell is observed when comparing the highest to the lowest fluorescence fractions. Similarly, a four-fold increase in total marker number is observed for CD8 cells. We also observed the separation of two dissimilar cell types that differed in expression of the CD4 marker, monocytes and T helper lymphocytes. We believe that this type of separation is applicable to any cells in suspension for which a suitable antibody exists and, due to the comparatively gentle nature of the process, is particularly suitable for the sorting of fragile cells.
The barrier function of the intestinal wall plays a key role in body homeostasis and defense against noxious agents. Conventional Ussing chamber techniques determine the overall transmural resistance but do not differentiate epithelial and subepithelial tissues. The barrier function, however, resides in the epithelial cell layer only. Transmural impedance analysis can solve this problem, if adequate models are applied. We show that: (i) epithelial and subepithelial impedances are additive, (ii) the epithelium proper can be represented by a very general electrical model, which demonstrates short-circuiting at high frequencies (due to cell membrane capacitances), and (iii) the reactance of subepithelial tissue can be described phenomenologically. Using an empirical expression for description of the subepithelial impedance, the present method allows the determination of the epithelial and the subepithelial resistance. This was exemplified in rat ileum, which defied adequate impedance analysis so far. Of the transmural DC resistance of 61 +/- 5 omega.cm2 (n = 8) the subepithelial contribution was 28 +/- 2 omega.cm2 and the epithelial resistance was 33 +/- 4 omega.cm2.
Serum albumin, when incubated with bilirubin prior to electrophoresis, was visualized as a yellow-colored band during the electrophoretic run and did not require any staining. Furthermore, free bilirubin served as a tracking dye. A minimum of 20 micrograms of protein was detected very well by this method. The formation of a bilirubin-albumin complex did not affect the electrophoretic mobility as the protein complexed with bilirubin as well as free albumin moved with the same mobility. Only a single protein band was visualized by this method after electrophoresis of human plasma. The method is simple, less time-consuming and may be used in identifying bilirubin-binding proteins in various biological samples.
Two methods of calculating the rate constant(s) and the total amount of final product for both irreversible and reversible first-order reactions have been developed. These methods are based on the analytical solution (for a special case) of the system of transcendental equations, which describe the reaction kinetics. The methods are simpler and more convenient to use than the earlier proposed graphic methods of Guggengeim and Kezdy-Swinbourne.
Isolation of the 50S ribosomal proteins from Thermus thermophilus has been achieved for the first time using reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography based on the use of the non-end-capped LiChrospher RP-18 sorbent and computer-assisted method development for optimisation of the resolution. The separation approach for these basic ribosomal proteins utilised mobile phases of high ionic strength, to suppress silanophilic interactions with this type of reversed-phase sorbent. These conditions were found to be a key requirement for achieving good resolution with minimal peak-tailing. The retention times of the 50S ribosomal proteins of Thermus thermophilus were observed to be in very close agreement with the values predicted by computer simulation procedures based on linear solvent strength concepts, with an average error of only 0.5%, whilst base-line resolution was achieved for most of the adjacent peak zones. Following N-terminal sequencing, the proteins TthL5, TthL9, TthL18, TthL24, TthL29, TthL32, TthL34, TthL35 and TthL36 of Thermus thermophilus were readily identified. This approach thus provided a readily optimised strategy for the isolation of the 50S ribosomal proteins from Thermus thermophilus and should be generally applicable to the corresponding ribosomal proteins from various other species, as well as other classes of basic proteins present in crude extracts derived from other biological sources.
Enzymatic cyclizations of squalene and oxidosqualene lead to sterols and other triterpenoids in bacteria, fungi, plants, and animals. The cyclases for these reactions catalyze formation and stabilization of polycyclic carbocations and direct the enzyme-specific, templated formation of new carbon-carbon bonds in regio- and stereochemically defined contexts. The development of mechanism-based irreversible inhibitors, photoactivatable inhibitors, and numerous substrate analogs have helped to unravel the stepwise events occurring in the catalytic sites of these enzymes by covalent modification of specific amino acid residues.
A quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) study is described on some cyclic ureas that inhibit the enzyme HIV-1 protease (HIV-1-PR) and exhibit antiviral potency. Both the enzyme inhibition activity and the antiviral potency were found to be primarily governed by the hydrophobic property of the substituents at the nitrogens (N2/N2') of the urea. Adjacent to the nitrogens, the C1/C1'-substituents are, however, found to affect the activity (inhibition) by their molecular size. The essential binding of the ureas with the receptor is, however, through multiple hydrogen bonding, where the substituents, too, can participate in such binding if they are capable of doing so. A schematic diagram of the overall interaction of the inhibitors with the receptor is presented.
By a quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) study, the inhibitory activity of a novel series of sulfones and sulfonamides of 1,2-diaryl-4,5-difluorobenzene, against the inducible form of cyclooxygenase (COX-2) was shown to be significantly correlated with the electronic constant (sigma) and some suitable indicator parameters. Considering the results of derived correlations, the substitutional requirement at different positions in the aromatic rings is discussed. In addition, a similar substitutional pattern for these congeners is found through a Fujita-Ban study. The latter approach also assigns higher (positive) activity contributions to those substituents that were guided by the former QSAR study.
Reaction of 2-nitrophenyl- and 4-nitrophenylsulfenyl chlorides with aromatic/heterocyclic sulfonamides/bis-sulfonamides containing a free amino, hydrazino or imino group afforded sulfenamido-sulfonamides, or sulfenimido-sulfonamides. Oxidation of these derivatives with potassium permanganate in acetone led to the corresponding bis-sulfonamides. The obtained compounds were assayed as inhibitors of the zinc enzyme carbonic anhydrase (CA), isozymes hCA I, hCA II (human cytosolic forms from red cells) and bCA IV (bovine membrane-associated form). Good inhibition of the three CA isozymes was observed with some of the new compounds, the bis-sulfonamides being more active than the sulfenamido-sulfonamides. Structure-active correlations for the new series of inhibitors are discussed. Some of the sulfenamido-sulfonamides (but not the corresponding bis-sulfonamides) showed topical intraocular pressure lowering effects when applied as a 2% solution directly into the rabbit eye.
5'-Deoxy-5'-difluoromethylthioadenosine (DFMTA) 1a and 5'-deoxy-5'-trifluoromethyl-thioadenosine (TFMTA) 1b are inhibitors of beef liver S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine hydrolase. DFMTA and TFMTA are time-dependent and irreversible inhibitors of the enzyme. Both 1a and 1b are oxidized by E-NAD+ to produce E-NADH and fluoride anion is formed in the inactivation reaction (2.2 mol of fluoride/mole of enzyme subunit and 3.1 fluoride/mole of enzyme subunit from DFMTA and TFMTA respectively). Using [8-3H]-1a or [8-3H]-1b no trace of labelled adenosine was detected during the inactivation reaction but adenine was formed. The mechanism of inhibition of S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine hydrolase by these two fluorinated nucleosides is discussed.
The interaction of pea seedling amine oxidase with cytokinins was examined to probe a possible connection between cytokinin oxidase and amine oxidase by determining whether cytokinins are substrates or inhibitors of the latter. Kinetic measurements suggest that cytokinins are weak competitive inhibitors of amine oxidase while their behaviour as substrates was not observed. The absence of enzymatic activity with cytokinins as substrates denies the identity or even any similarity of these two enzymes which was previously considered [Hare, P.D. and van Staden, J. (1994) J. Physiol. Plant., 91, 128]. From the values of the inhibition constants obtained it seems unlikely that cytokinins take part in the regulation of amine oxidase activity in vivo. Their inhibitory effect on amine oxidase may be similar to that of some alkaloids studied earlier.
The competitive inhibition of Lens culinaris L. copper amine oxidase by amiloride (Ki = 4.1 x 10(-4) M), p-aminobenzamidine (Ki = 6.0 x 10(-4) M), clonidine (Ki = 5.0 x 10(-4) M), 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI; Ki = 1.9 x 10(-5) M) and gabexate mesylate (Ki = 2.5 x 10(-4) M) has been investigated, at pH 7.0 and 25 degrees C. The affinity of p-aminobenzamidine, clonidine and DAPI for plant and mammalian copper amine oxidase is closely similar. However, values of Ki for amiloride and gabexate mesylate binding to swine kidney copper amine oxidase are lower than those observed for inhibitor binding to Lens culinaris L. cooper amine oxidase. Thus, amiloride and gabexate mesylate may represent useful model compounds for the development of selective inhibitors of mammalian copper amine oxidase, which may be important in view of the potential use of plant copper amine oxidase as drugs.
In mammals, catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) is distributed throughout various organs, the highest activities being found in the liver and kidney. However, comparisons of the kinetic parameters are difficult to perform, since the experimental procedures in the enzyme assay vary quite considerably. The present work was aimed at studying the optimal liver COMT assay conditions for determining the kinetics of the enzyme. The COMT assay was performed with liver homogenates from 60 days old male Wistar rats with adrenaline (AD) as the substrate. Time course experiments using 100 microM S-adenosyl-L-methionine (SAMe) and 300 microM AD showed linearity of O-methylation reaction upto 10 min. Using 100 microM SAMe, Vmax (nmol mg protein-1 h-1) and Km (microM) values progressively decreased respectively from 22.1 and 104.8 at 5 min down to 5.8 and 24.62 at 60 min incubation periods. This decrease was not due to end-product inhibition. Using 2500 microM AD, Km values (microM) for the methyl donor SAMe increased progressively from 174 at 5 min upto 1192.5 at 60 min; upto 30 min of incubation Vmax values did not change. When a 5 min incubation period and 500 microM SAMe were used, Vmax and Km values for liver COMT were 63.4 nmol mg protein-1 h-1 and 261.1 microM, respectively. It is concluded that an incubation period of 5 min and a SAMe concentration of 500 microM provide optimal conditions for the liver homogenate COMT assay.
Cardiac surgeons took to the heart and claimed an exclusive privilege to intervene. The task of cardiologists was to identify "candidates" and feed the Great Surgical Machine. Recently catheter surgery has developed and fell into the hands of cardiologists, who became interventionists. Cardiac surgeons are concerned about losing interventions and their identify. The analysis of the current situation implies a revisitation of old concepts: surgery, intervention, therapy, patients, invasiveness etc ... etc ... and a review of our therapeutic philosophy. Therapeutic plans comprise three interrelated components: the target, the bullet (therapeutic agent), and the gun (the way of delivering the bullet on target). This description characterizes surgery as a way of delivering. If side effects are effects that do not affect the target, surgical procedures are mostly side effects, with significant morbidity. Future surgical rationales should reconcile target-specific therapy and minimal collateral damages: Minimal Surgery! or to use a new buzz, less invasiveness. Cardiac surgery has focused too much on surgical practice and neglected the rest of cardiology, missing opportunities for new researches, new rationales, and new techniques. Surgeons must become again Renaissance Men, involved in the entire field of cardiology, with a special skill in surgical techniques. Cardiac surgeons should no longer confine their practice to the delivering end. This end does not, any more, justify the means.
Overlapping biphasic (OLBI) stimulation is a new pacing waveform consisting of two simultaneous monophasic pulses of opposite polarities applied to a bipolar electrode. The goal of this prospective study was to compare, using conventional pacing leads, the acute energy pacing thresholds, measured at 0.5-ms pulse duration, associated with bipolar versus OLBI (mode 7 and mode 8) pulse delivery. RESULTS: Thirty one leads were tested in 20 patients. Of these leads, 7 (23%) were implanted chronically, 12 (39%) were in atrial positions, and 19 (61%) in ventricular positions. Energy pacing thresholds were significantly lower (-25.6 +/- 25.6%, P = 0.005) in OLBI mode 8 (1.30 +/- 3.96 microJ) compared to bipolar (1.55 +/- 4.37 microJ) pacing, regardless of the pacing site or length of service of the leads. In contrast, OLBI mode 7, which has an anodal component, at the tip electrode was associated with higher energy pacing thresholds (3.65 +/- 6.48 microJ; +358.3 +/- 219.4%, P = 0.002). CONCLUSIONS: Mode 8 OLBI pacing is associated with lower acute energy pacing thresholds when used with bipolar leads in contact with the myocardium. OLBI pacing may increase pacemaker longevity by reducing long-term energy consumption.
The atrioventricular (AV) interval is critical in dual chamber (DDD) pacing in patients with hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy (HOCM) to obtain full ventricular capture (FVC) with maximal reduction of the left ventricular (LV) outflow gradient and optimal LV diastolic filling. We studied the relationship of FVC, fusion, spontaneous AV conduction, and the QT interval. METHODS: 11 patients with various cardiac diseases and stable AV conduction received a QT sensing Diamond, Vitatron, DDD pacemaker. Software was downloaded into the pacemaker. In the DDD pacing mode, with the QT interval measured from the ventricular pacing stimulus to the end of the T wave, the AV interval was shortened from 400 ms, in 20-ms steps, to 90 ms. At 90 ms the stimulation rate was increased by 30 beats/min and the AV interval was increased stepwise. FVC and fusion was examined on the surface ECG. RESULTS: At 400 ms interval, spontaneous AV conduction inhibited the pacemaker. Shortening the AV interval resulted in pacing with a short QT interval. Further reduction of the AV interval resulted in a longer QT interval up to a point where the QT interval became stable. This point, the bending point in the plot of measured QT interval versus shortened AV intervals, coincided with the point of FVC. The relation of the QT-AV interval plot and the point of fusion was comparable when lengthening the AV interval at a 30 beats/min faster stimulation rate. CONCLUSION: The bending point in the QT interval versus AV interval plots showed a good correlation with the FVC and fusion points observed on ECG. The results suggest that automatic discrimination between fusion and full capture using QT interval measurements may be feasible.
BACKGROUND: The effectiveness of cardiac pacing in preventing vasovagal syncope remains controversial. However, DDI pacing with rate hysteresis has been reported to prevent the recurrence of cardioinhibitory vasovagal syncope in up to 35% of affected subjects and to reduce the overall incidence of syncopal episodes in the others. Recently, DDD pacing with a new promising rate drop response function (Medtronic Thera-I model 7960) has become available in clinical practice. AIM OF THE STUDY: The aim of the present open trial was to test the effectiveness of this new pacing modality in patients with cardioinhibitory vasovagal syncope. STUDY POPULATION AND METHODS: The study population included 20 patients (12 males and 8 females; mean age 61.1 +/- 14 yrs) with recurrent syncope (mean number of prior episode = 6.8, range 5-11) and cardioinhibitory responses during two head-up tilt tests: the first diagnostic and the second during drug therapy with either beta-blockade or etilephrine. The study patients were randomized to receive either DDI pacing with rate hysteresis (8 patients) or DDD pacing with rate drop response function (11 patients). The head-up tilt test performed 1 month after pacemaker implantation was positive in 3 of 12 patients (25%) with DDD pacing with rate drop response function and in 5 of 8 patients (62.5%) with DDI pacing with rate hysteresis. The mean duration of follow-up was 17.7 +/- 7.4 months. During follow-up no patients with a DDD pacemaker with rate drop response function had syncope, while 3 of 8 patients with a DDI pacemaker with rate hysteresis had recurrence of syncope (P < 0.05). CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that DDD pacing with rate drop response function is effective in cardioinhibitory vasovagal syncope and may be preferable to DDI pacing with rate hysteresis.
The current pacing rates are clustered around a fixed base rate since pacemaker patients are usually sedentary, resting, or sleeping most of the time. This fixed base rate is either too low for daytime hemodynamic support or too high for nighttime rest and recovery. Multiple Holter studies involving normal individuals have suggested that the resting base rate fluctuates during the course of the day. The circadian base rate (CBR) algorithm was designed to provide patients with a circadian change in paced resting rate and a normal rate distribution. The CBR algorithm, using a sophisticated accelerometer sensor, was developed and tested using the downloaded activity data from patients implanted with Trilogy DR+ pacemakers. Twenty-five patients (19 men, 6 women, age 72 +/- 9 years) were studied. Trilogy DR+ is able to record the detailed sensor and system behavior data for a week. During outpatient visits, the pacemaker was interrogated and the data accumulated in the pacemaker memory were downloaded. The CBR algorithm was applied to the activity variance histogram to calculate the base rate and to construct its histogram. The base rates in the CBR histogram are generally below 100 ppm with a distribution that mimics the natural sinus rate distribution of normal subjects. The CBR algorithm provides the highest daytime rates for hemodynamic support and the lowest nighttime rates for cardiac recovery, with a smoothly changing base rate modeling the normal circadian variation in heart rate.
The peak endocardial acceleration (PEA, unit g) shows a near correlation with myocardial contractility during the isometric systolic contraction of the heart (dP/dtmax), with sympathetic activity and, thus, with physiological heart rate modulation. The (Biomechanical Endocardial Sorin Transducer (BEST) sensor is incorporated in the tip of a pacing lead and measures PEA directly near the myocardium. In an international study, the lead was implanted with the dual chamber pacemaker Living-1 (Sorin) in 105 patients. The behavior of the PEA signal was tested under conditions of physical and mental stress and during daily life activities by 24-hour recordings of PEA (PEA Holter) at 1 to 2 months and approximately 1 year after implantation. Implantation of the BEST lead was performed without complications in all patients. The sensor functioned properly in the short- and long-term in 98% of patients. Although PEA values differed from patient to patient, the values closely reflected the variations in sympathetic activity due to physical and mental stress in each patient. During exercise and during daily life activities a close correlation between PEA and heart rate was observed among patients with normal sinus rhythm. Peak endocardial acceleration allows a nearly physiological control of the pacing rate.
The aim of this study was to assess the long-term performance of a new dual chamber rate responsive pacing system based on the dynamic measurement of the peak endocardial acceleration (PEA) index of cardiac contractility. Seventy patients who participated in the Multicenter European Clinical Evaluation were studied 1 year after implantation by continuously recording the PEA and the heart rate (HR) during exercise stress testing and during 24 hours of usual activities. A complete examination of standard parameters was also performed to assess the pacing/sensing lead characteristics. Statistical comparisons were performed with the data recorded with the same protocol at 1 month after implant for each patient. A linear correlation coefficient was calculated between PEA and sinus rate when the patient showed predominant atrial tracked rhythm. There were no significant differences between PEA values measured at 1 month and 1 year (PEA = 0.41 +/- 0.26 g vs 0.45 +/- 0.29 g at rest and PEA = 1.63 +/- 0.77 g vs 1.72 +/- 0.83 g during peak exercise). The correlation coefficient remained stable (0.67 +/- 0.15 vs 0.65 +/- 0.14 during daily life and 0.74 +/- 0.14 vs 0.77 +/- 0.11 during exercise). The PEA signal detected by the sensor was reliable and stable. No long-term complications or adverse effects were observed, and the lead performance was comparable to that of a standard lead.
The minute ventilation is known to be one of the most physiological indicators of exercise. A curvilinear relationship between VE and the normal sinus rhythm (NSR) has been demonstrated in healthy patients. The aim of this study is to show that a pacemaker based on a VE sensor can reproduce such a relationship. Eighty-one patients received a Talent DR 213 (ELA Medical, Montrouge, France) pacemaker with a third-generation rate responsive algorithm. At 1-month follow-up, the patients underwent a treadmill exercise test, after which three groups were defined: group 1 had 6 patients who were 100% paced throughout the exercise test; group 2 had 10 patients who maintained NSR throughout the test; and group 3 had 12 patients who had cardiopulmonary recording during the exercise test. In group 1 patients, the simulation function computed the simulated rate (sim-rate), which was compared to the sensor-driven rate (SDR). In group 2 patients, sim-rate was compared to the NSR. In group 3 patients, cardiac and metabolic reserves were compared to determine the appropriateness of the rate response to exercise (HRR% vs MR%). The results showed that the mean correlation coefficient between sim-rate and SDR was 0.983 +/- 0.005 (P < 0.001); the mean correlation coefficient between NSR and SDR was 0.92 +/- 0.07 (P < 0.001); and a linear relationship was found between HRR% and MR%, with a mean slope of 1.1 +/- 0.2 that was significantly equal to the theoretical value of 1 (P = NS). In conclusion, combining an activity-driven sensor with a physiological sensor allows the preservation of a physiological rate response during exercise.
The morphology of intracardiac electrograms (IEGMs) was used for pacemaker patient workload estimation. The body posture also was studied as another characteristic. The IEGMs were obtained and recorded via temporary transcutaneous leads connected to the implanted pacemaker. IEGMs were recorded during exercise and at rest. Recordings at rest were performed in different body positions. The morphology was analyzed visually in order to observe changes due to workload and posture. The recordings were digitized and processed by a computer-simulated neural network. The network was used as an automatic IEGM classifier based on the morphology. Our results show that the morphology of the IEGM may be used as an indicator of patient workload and body posture. The necessary information is found mainly in the ST segment. We conclude that neural networks seem to be useful in an active cardiac device.
In recent years a multitude of rate adaptive sensor systems based on different sensor signals have been developed to adapt the pacing rate to the physical load of the patient. In contrast to those systems the closed loop stimulation (CLS) represents a new concept, which regards the pacemaker as part of the cardiocirculatory system. The pacemaker converts the regulating information of the circulatory center into a heart rate. This study compares the closed loop stimulation and the different sensor systems that evaluate external parameters for rate adaptive pacing with a control group. To this end, 27 patients and 15 patients with a healthy sinus node (control group) were subjected to physical and mental stress tests. The recorded results were analyzed with regard to the maximum rates reached during stress. The results show that none of the studied sensor-controlled systems was able to determine an adequate pacing rate under all of the various load states. The dual sensor systems experience problems in balancing the input of the two sensor signals when calculating the pacing rate. The evaluation of a single external parameter, such as the acceleration of the upper body with the accelerometer, also failed to provide an adequate pacing rate in many stress situations. In contrast to all sensor systems, CLS achieved a heart rate in agreement with those of the reference group in all physical and mental stress situations.
