PURPOSE: The aim of the study was to determine movement of the fovea during each irradiation session by monitoring movement of the cornea. Knowing the extent of foveal deviation permits minimization of the field size. METHODS: (1) Eye movement was monitored in 10 patients during irradiation. A TV camera with an attached fixation light was installed 3 cm away from the cornea of the treated eye. The fixation light was positioned at a 10 degrees angle to the TV camera on the opposite side of the gantry, resulting in a 90 degrees angle between the optical axis of the eye and the irradiation beam. (2) The relationship between movement of the anterior and posterior eye segments of 10 volunteers was examined using a scanning laser ophthalmoscope (SLO). Volunteers were asked to fix their gaze on positioning lights installed in the SLO. Gaze movements of the anterior and posterior eye segments were recorded simultaneously. RESULTS: (1) The patients' ability to retain fixation differed interindividually. The median corneal deviation during 10 irradiation sessions was 1 mm mediolaterally and 0.7 mm craniocaudally. (2) Deviation of the fovea could be determined by monitoring deviation of the cornea. Measured by SLO, the correlation between movements of the anterior and posterior eye segments was 1:0.9 horizontally and 1:1.5 vertically. CONCLUSION: (1) Irradiation field size can be reduced, depending on the patient's fixation stability. (2) If monitoring reveals a foveal deviation beyond the 95% isodose, irradiation can be interrupted.
Hypoglossal nerve palsy (HNP) may follow fracture of the base of the skull. Of the various aetiologies described, trauma is one of the least frequent. HNP can easily be missed at the time of injury and awareness of this rare complication may assist in early diagnosis. A case of HNP after a head injury associated with the loss of taste sensation on the paralysed side of the tongue and aerocoele is reported.
BACKGROUND: Economic evaluation of new treatments in the field of glaucoma represents a challenge. In the absence of a clear epidemiological link between intra-ocular pressure (IOP) and disease progression to blindness, the economic impact of treatments that lower IOP on long-term outcome cannot be estimated. As an alternative, effectiveness may be expressed as the ability to control IOP over time, making it possible to estimate the cost-effectiveness of therapies. The objective of this study was to investigate treatment strategies for patients newly diagnosed with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) or ocular hypertension (OH) in Germany and to estimate the impact of new topical therapies on the total cost of treatment. METHODS: We performed a retrospective analysis of 200 randomly selected patient charts in 50 ophthalmology practices. Demographics, diagnoses, IOP and detailed resource utilization over 2 years were collected. Resources were valued independently from the quantitative data collection, and a standard charge from the perspective of the third party payer, as well as a cost from the societal viewpoint, was determined for each item. A Markov model was created to calculate total treatment costs with the new therapy. RESULT: During the 2 years, 54% of patients had their therapy changed at least once. Mean total charge and cost per patient were DM 815 and DM 1274, respectively. Mean IOP at baseline was 31.2 mm at baseline and 18.8 mm after 2 years. IOP at baseline was positively correlated with costs, while IOP reduction after treatment initiation was negatively correlated with costs. Simulations of the effect of new topical therapies on treatment costs to third party payers and to society indicate that a potential reduction or delay of surgical interventions may partly offset the extra cost of the new drugs. CONCLUSION: Observational data for glaucoma treatment indicate a high frequency of treatment changes that are associated with higher costs. New treatments that control IOP effectively over time may thus reduce the cost of patient management. Their cost-effectiveness for managing IOP will depend on both, their price and their effectiveness.
BACKGROUND: The purpose of this prospective, controlled, clinical study was to investigate corneal shape changes due to pars plana vitrectomy (PPV) in patients with potential visual improvement postoperatively. METHODS: A total of 36 consecutive patients undergoing conventional PPV combined with or without macular surgery were studied. Sequential determinations of the corneal curvature by manual keratometry and corneal topography were performed preoperatively, during the first postoperative week, at 4 weeks and after 2-8 months (mean 4 months). RESULTS: The mean surgically induced keratometric astigmatism was 2.92 +/- 1.98 diopters (D) (P < 0.0001) during the first postoperative week. After 4 weeks and 4 months the values decreased to 1.01 +/- 0.97 D and 0.67 +/- 0.43 D, respectively. Videokeratographic analysis confirmed significant curvature changes, with corneal steepening (P < 0.008) which corresponded to the superonasal and temporal semimeridian, and flattening (P < 0.008) along the inferior and inferonasal semimeridians. Corneal changes persisted in some cases for several weeks, partly in an asymmetric and irregular configuration. Shifts in axis to against-the-rule and oblique meridians were noted postoperatively with redistribution within preoperative values in 53% of the cases at 4 weeks after surgery. Subgroup analysis revealed that suture diameter, as well as the use of gas endotamponade, influenced the induced astigmatism. CONCLUSION: A substantial increase of the corneal astigmatism and distinct shape changes can occur after PPV in the immediate postoperative period. Consecutive stabilization at preoperative values was observed after several weeks. The time course of the corneal curvature alterations should be considered in the postoperative management to detect refractive causes of inadequate visual acuity.
BACKGROUND: The multi-input electroretinogram (ERG) has recently been developed to analyze focal retinal responses in the central region and is expected to become a powerful tool for management of retinal diseases. The relationship between the obtained ERG response and retinal neuronal functions is not yet fully understood. METHOD: In the present study, in order to study the spatial retinal functions; multi-input ERGs were recorded from 14 healthy subjects under several illumination conditions modulating photoreceptor functions. RESULTS: The first-order kernel amplitudes were changed in correspondence to the cone photoreceptor adaptation states under different background illuminations. A strong flash exposure significantly lowered the amplitude (approximately 70%) within the central 15 deg but lowered it only slightly (10-20%) in the peripheral areas outside the central 15 deg. Similar effects were observed when the stimulus luminance was lowered by neutral density filters. CONCLUSION: Our data suggest that a newly developed multi-input measurement of ERGs represents signals within the firing of postreceptor neurons from cone photoreceptors at specific areas. Thus, this analysis is a useful tool for mapping the spatial network of neurons in the central region.
BACKGROUND: Transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) regulates extracellular matrix deposition, cell proliferation, and migration, and is expressed in cornea. TGF-beta is thought to be involved in the corneal wound healing process. METHODS: The central corneal area (3 mm in diameter) of Lewis rats was ablated using PTK mode excimer laser and the wound healing process was observed at 12 and 24 h and 2, 5, 10, and 30 days after treatment. The expression of TGF-beta 1, -beta 2 and -beta 3, TGF-beta type I and type II receptors, alpha 3, alpha 5, beta 4 integrin subunits, laminin and fibronectin was studied immunohistochemically. Antibody neutralizing TGF-beta 1, -beta 2 and -beta 3 was administered intraperitoneally, 50 micrograms daily, for 5 days after the laser treatment to investigate the effects of TGF-beta function blockade. RESULTS: At the leading edge of the regenerating epithelium, no TGF-beta type I and type II receptors and beta 4 integrin subunits were expressed after 24 h. Regenerating epithelium covered the ablated area after 2 days. An abnormal fibrotic layer was formed in the subepithelial area. This layer contained round-shaped cells in the stroma in the early stage (2-5 days after laser ablation) and spindle-shaped fibroblast-like keratocytes after 10 days. Laminin and fibronectin expression increased in the fibrotic layer. The increased stromal cells expressed TGF-beta isoforms and TGF-beta receptors. Neutralizing TGF-beta inhibited the stromal cell increase in the laser ablated area after 5 days. CONCLUSION: TGF-beta may be involved in epithelial cell migration and stromal cell reaction during the corneal wound healing process after excimer laser ablation in rat models.
BACKGROUND: Photoreceptor transplants provide a potential means to restore function in a degenerate retina and/or rescue degenerating host photoreceptors by trophic influences. We have examined photoreceptor allografts in the Abyssinian cat model of hereditary photoreceptor degeneration to determine the viability and influence of such transplants on the host retina. METHODS: Small pieces of 3- to 5-day-old normal kitten retina containing undifferentiated photoreceptors were injected into the subretinal space of adult Abyssinian cats at an early stage of retinal degeneration using standard vitreo-retinal surgical techniques. The retinas were examined by ophthalmoscopy and fundus photography, then by light and electron microscopy at different times after surgery. RESULTS: Such allografts survive for at least 6 months after surgery. The photoreceptors develop outer segments, invariably in rosettes. The transplants gradually integrate with the host retina but detach the host photoreceptor layer from the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE), which tends to reduce the number of host photoreceptors over the transplant. There is no slowing of the photoreceptor degeneration in neighboring non-detached retina. Inflammation or rejection was not detected. CONCLUSION: Undifferentiated, neonatal photoreceptor allografts survive and develop outer segments in the subretinal space of the Abyssinian mutant feline retina. The allografts gradually integrate with the host neural retina without inducing rejection. In the vicinity of the transplant there is increased loss of host photoreceptors, considered to be due to their detachment from the RPE layer. There is no evidence of any rescue of host photoreceptors elsewhere in this mutant retina.
BACKGROUND: We examined the immunolocalization of proto-oncogene products, including c-Fos and c-Jun, in the rat cornea during epithelial and stromal wound healing after simple epithelial ablation, penetrating injury or alkali burn. METHODS: Eighty-four male Wistar rats were divided into three groups and subjected to treatments as follows: (a) ablation of central corneal epithelium leaving basement membrane intact, (b) alkali burn in the central cornea with 1 N NaOH and (c) penetrating injury at the central cornea. The affected eyes were then enucleated after various intervals of healing. The frozen sections were immunohistochemically stained with the antibodies against proto-oncogene products. RESULTS: c-Fos- and c-Jun-immunoreactive cells were detected in the epithelium around the epithelial defect from 60 to 120 min after these treatments. The distribution of these cells were varied in these three types of injury. The immunoreactivities for these proteins were also detected in keratocytes after epithelial ablation. In the corneas with alkali burn, the immunoreactivities were detected in the keratocytes in the whole corneal stroma, and these immunoreactions were stronger than those observed in simple epithelial ablation. In the corneas with penetrating injury, such immunoreaction was seen only in keratocytes around the wound. CONCLUSION: These findings indicate that activator protein 1-mediated transcriptional activation for epithelial migration is initiated in the early phase after each injury, and that stromal keratocytes are also transcriptionally activated not only by alkali burn or penetrating injury but also by simple epithelial ablation in which basement membrane was not affected.
BACKGROUND: Fischer rats were less susceptible to experimental autoimmune uveoretinitis (EAU) than Lewis rats, although both strains have the same MHC molecules. The purpose of this study was to compare the susceptibility of experimental allergic/immune-mediated blepharoconjunctivitis (EAC) between these two strains. METHODS: Male Lewis and Fischer rats were immunized with either ovalbumin (OVA) or OVA peptide (OVA323-339) in complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA). Three weeks later, they were challenged with OVA by eye drops. Twenty-four hours later, after clinical evaluation, they were killed and eyes, blood and lymph nodes were harvested for histology, antibody titer and proliferation assay, cytokine production or flow cytometric analysis, respectively. RESULTS: Fischer rats developed mild EAC compared with Lewis rats. Cellular proliferative responses, IFN-gamma production of culture supernatant and serum IgG specific for OVA were basically the same between the two strains. The same OVA peptides were selected as immunodominant. Flow cytometric analysis demonstrated the same cellular profile of lymph node cells in the two strains. CONCLUSION: EAC in Fischer rats was milder than that in Lewis rats, although no apparent differences in immunological parameters between these two strains were detected. These data suggest that factors unrelated to immunological parameters may depend on the susceptibility of EAC.
BACKGROUND: Indocyanine green (ICG) angiography has been used to evaluate posterior uveitis in the clinical setting, despite the shortage of data on possible pathological correlates of observed findings. METHODS: We used both ICG angiography and fluorescein angiography to examine rats that developed a mild form of experimental autoimmune uveoretinitis (EAU) induced by immunization with interphotoreceptor retinoid-binding protein (IRBP). Angiography was performed on days 9, 10, 11 and 23 after IRBP immunization, and freshly enucleated eyes obtained on the same days were examined histopathologically by light microscopy and transmission electron microscopy. RESULTS: Diffuse dilatation and tortuosity of the retinal vessels was observed by both ICG and fluorescein angiography, with leakage from these vessels in focal areas in the periphery. In addition, deep hyperfluorescent spots in the central posterior pole, not associated with retinal vessels, were observed by ICG angiography only. These corresponded to Dalen-Fuchs-like nodules on funduscopy. On histopathological examination, eyes showed inflammatory cell infiltration around retinal vessels, disorganization of outer retinal layers, focal subretinal accumulations of cells (resembling Dalen-Fuchs nodules), and diffuse inflammatory cell infiltration in the choroid. Ultrastructural examination of a Dalen-Fuchs-like nodule revealed a mound of monocytes, appearing to contain phagosomes of lipofuscin and phospholipids, sandwiched between transformed retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) cells with disrupted apical processes and loss of basal interdigitation. CONCLUSION: These results suggest that ICG angiography may be useful in delineating certain abnormalities at the level of the RPE, in association with posterior ocular inflammation, that cannot be observed by fluorescein angiography alone.
BACKGROUND: The 2.5-year outcome of a 3-year-old girl with a primary intraconjunctival rhabdomyosarcoma treated by biopsy-controlled combined chemo- and brachytherapy is reported. METHODS: The patient presented with a conjunctival dermoid-like lesion which showed modest growth on 1-month follow-up. The first biopsy appointment was missed because of a viral illness. When she showed up 3 months later a further increase in size was obvious and several incisional biopsies were taken immediately. RESULTS: Light microscopy revealed an undifferentiated subepithelial small cell tumour. On immunohistochemistry the tumour reacted with vimentin and desmin antibodies. Thus, the diagnosis of an embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma was made. The patient underwent 9 cycles of polychemotherapy and the tumour mass disappeared macroscopically. However, immunohistochemistry of incisional biopsies showed residual tumour cells. The latter were eradicated by an individually shaped strontium-90 applicator. CONCLUSION: At 2.5 years after biopsy-controlled combined chemotherapy and brachytherapy the patient is free of tumour at a manageable level of complications. This new approach appears to be a good alternative in the treatment of primary conjunctival rhabdomyosarcomas since it takes advantage of the unique location of this rare tumour and avoids hemifacial retardation, known to be induced by external beam radiation.
BACKGROUND: The purpose of the study is to demonstrate the development of subretinal fibrotic scar formation in central serous chorioretinopathy (CSCR) that developed during systemic corticosteroid treatment. METHODS: The clinical and photographic records of a patient in whom an unusual manifestation of severe central serous chorioretinopathy developed during systemic corticosteroid treatment were reviewed. RESULTS: A 34-year-old man received high dosages of corticosteroids for several years because of severe asthma. There was no previous history of idiopathic CSCR. He developed three successive attacks of CSCR. On the third occasion, an unusual variant of severe CSCR was observed which presented as a bullous sensory retinal detachment with subretinal serofibrinous exudate followed by subretinal fibrosis and fibrotic scar formation with contracting bands. After tapering of the corticosteroid dosage to a low level the retinal detachment resolved without laser treatment. CONCLUSION: The finding suggests that during systemic corticosteroid treatment atypical manifestations of CSCR may develop with subretinal fibrosis and scar formation.
Mibefradil is a calcium antagonist approved for the treatment of hypertension and chronic stable angina pectoris. To investigate the relationship between steady state, trough plasma concentrations and blood pressure response in patients with renal dysfunction, data from a multicenter, multiple-dose mibefradil study were analyzed. Changes in sitting diastolic blood pressure from baseline were linearly related to trough plasma mibefradil concentrations. Renal function did not affect plasma mibefradil concentrations. Consequently, mibefradil dosage adjustment is not required for patients with renal impairment.
Amiodarone, a potent class III antiarrhythmic agent with adrenergic antagonism properties, is administered increasingly to diabetic patients with cardiac arrhythmias refractory to all other available forms of therapy. Because a large percentage of diabetic patients show a perturbed autonomic regulation of the cardiovascular system, including a pertubed regulation of heart rate, we studied the antiarrhythmic response as well as the early effects (within 5 days) on heart rate of an intravenous amiodarone loading dose in diabetic patients. Seven type II (noninsulin-dependent) diabetic patients (age 64.7 +/- 9.7 years), affected by uncontrolled atrial fibrilation or atrial flutter, were enrolled for the study and a group of 12 well-matched (for age, sex and arrhythmia) nondiabetic patients served as a control group. It was found that before amiodarone administration, nondiabetic patients showed significantly wider variations in the circadian rhythm of heart rate values than diabetic patients (p = 0.0062, unpaired t-test). In all patients but one (who was nondiabetic), amiodarone treatment resulted in a cardioversion to sinus rhythm. After amiodarone administration, nondiabetic patients showed a significantly greater decrease (p = 0.0011) in heart rate values in comparison with the diabetic group (-35% vs. -20% on average, at the end of the study). Furthermore, in nondiabetic patients there was also an earlier significant fall (within the first 4 h after the start of treatment with amiodarone, p < 0.001) in the heart rate values in comparison with diabetic patients, in whom a significant decrease (p < 0.001) was found only at the 4th day. A significant (p = 0.0004), more rapid onset of the antiarrhythmic response to the drug was found in nondiabetic patients (6.8 +/- 6.0 h) in comparison with diabetic patients (98.0 +/- 14.8 h). Our findings suggest that the antiarrhythmic effects of amiodarone in diabetic patients with uncontrolled atrial fibrilation or atrial flutter may be delayed in comparison with nondiabetic patients. This altered response may be (at least in part) due to the diabetic autonomic neuropathy. Our study indicates that the presence of diabetes mellitus always must be taken into account when patients are enrolled for large, prospective, randomized trials, planned to evaluate the antiarrhythmic effects of amiodarone given intravenously.
In a randomized, single-blind, crossover clinical trial, the diuretic efficacy of the same total dose of furosemide (2 x 40 mg) administered in either conventional intravenous bolus injection or continuous infusion was studied in 20 patients (nine males and 11 females), aged 37-75 years, with congestive heart failure. Furosemide infusion, administered first, produced a significantly greater diuresis than the bolus when compared with baseline (86%: 29.6%; p = 0.029). This was followed by a similar increase in 24-h urinary sodium, potassium and chloride excretion, with no significant difference from the bolus effect. The following day, diuretic and saluretic effects of furosemide did not differ significantly between the study groups. Nevertheless, when continuous furosemide infusion was administered first, it produced a greater increase in urinary volume, 24-h urinary sodium, potassium and chloride than when bolus injection was applied the next day. Conversely, when furosemide bolus was administered first, followed by the infusions the next day, the effects were almost equal, regardless of the mode of administration. It is concluded that in the treatment of refractory edema in patients with congestive heart failure, continuous intravenous infusion of furosemide is superior to the conventional intermittent bolus injection, especially if it is administered at the very beginning of the hospital treatment, and presumably is even better with higher dosage and longer infusion time span.
We used a time-dependent input rate function in the two-compartment model to simulate drug plasma concentrations after an oral administration. The input rate term has a Gaussian-like structure with two parameters, time to maximum absorption rate (tm) and measure of the duration of the absorption process (s). This structure corresponds to the scenario in which the absorption rate of the drug into the central compartment changes unimodally with respect to time after administration with a single peak at time tm. We demonstrate the applicability of this formulation in the simulation of plasma concentration of didanosine after oral administration in two Japanese hemophiliacs. We found that we were able to simulate the time courses of the didanosine plasma concentrations in both patients using the theoretical equation with the input term included, and that we were able to determine the six parameters in the equation by the least squares estimation. Pharmacokinetic values derived from the best-fit curve were almost comparable to those reported in other literature except that the Cmax and AUC0-infinity seemed to be slightly higher than those reported elsewhere. Although we are unable to verify the accuracy of this formulation because of the lack of sufficient Japanese data, we are able to demonstrate its efficacy and convenience in the application presented here.
The pharmacokinetics and tolerance of a single oral dose (150 mg) of a new 3-azinomethyl rifamycin (SPA-S-565, USAN rifametane) was compared with 150 mg of conventional rifampicin in six healthy volunteers. The mean maximum concentration (Cmax) of SPA-S-565 was 3.94 +/- 0.26 micrograms/ml, and resulted significantly higher as compared with the Cmax after rifampicin, which was 2.89 +/- 0.20 micrograms/ml. The mean maximum time (tmax) for SPA-S-565 was 2.1 +/- 0.3 h as compared with that of rifampicin, which was 1.6 +/- 0.3 h, the difference between these values not being statistically significant. The elimination half-life (t1/2) of SPA-S-565 was 17.5 +/- 2.6 h in contrast to the half-life of 2.8 +/- 0.26 h seen with rifampicin; the difference was found to be highly significant. The mean area under the serum concentration curve from 0 to the last detectable concentration (AUC0-t) and the mean area under the serum concentration-versus-time curve from 0 to infinity (AUC0-infinity) of SPA-S-565 were almost six times than those obtained with conventional rifampicin. The differences between the two compounds were highly significant. In all cases except one volunteer all the biochemical parameters remained within normal range following single oral dose administration of SPA-S-565. In one volunteer, although there was a slight rise in serum alkaline phosphatase above the normal range, the original value itself was at the very upper limit of the normal range (i.e., 80 IU/L). Although there was a significant increase in the levels of serum alkaline phosphatase, serum gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGTP) and serum amylase levels, 24 h following the administration of SPA-S-565 these levels remained within the normal range.
Intraosseous infusion has been recommended as a rapid and effective form of circulatory access in the collapsed child. Recognised sites for insertion include the tibia, femur, iliac crest, sternum, and clavicle. The case of a 3 year old collapsed child is described who was successfully resuscitated with the use of an intraosseous needle placed in the calcaneum; the method of needle insertion is also detailed.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of a new formulation of ibuprofen (ibuprofen-arginine [IA]) in the treatment of migraine attacks. This is a faster absorbed formulation as compared with ibuprofen alone. The rapidity of action is considered to be a crucial factor in the treatment of migraine attacks. Forty migraine patients participated in this multicenter, double-blind, crossover, randomized, placebo-controlled trial. Each patient was treated with a single oral dose of IA 400 mg or placebo during two consecutive migraine attacks. The results confirm the efficacy of IA, with a significant (p < 0.05) improvement in pain relief at 30 min after treatment. A statistically significant (p < 0.001) reduction in pain intensity was observed at 1, 2, 4 and 6 h after treatment with ibuprofen as compared with placebo. IA was well tolerated and our data indicate that this new formulation of ibuprofen is valuable in the treatment of acute migraine attacks.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the degree of inappropriate use of the London Ambulance Service and analyse the reasons for misuse. DESIGN: An immediate assessment of the appropriateness of the "999" call by the ambulanceperson and casualty senior house officer followed by a retrospective review of each case by the accident and emergency (A&E) consultant. SETTING: A busy inner London A&E department. METHODS: Three hundred consecutive emergency ambulance arrivals to the A&E department underwent assessment as to the appropriateness of the call. RESULTS: Overall 53.7% of patients were considered justified in their call, 15.7% of calls were inappropriate, and in 19.0% of cases a unanimous decision was not reached. Eleven per cent of all forms were incompletely filled. CONCLUSIONS: Almost 16% of emergency ambulance calls were considered unanimously to be inappropriate. This suggests that 75,000 emergency calls per year to the London Ambulance Service are not necessary. The commonest reason for inappropriately calling an ambulance was that the caller felt that they had a serious or life threatening condition. The need for public education and deterrents of ambulance abuse are discussed. The further introduction of a nursing led triage "hot line" to appropriately dispatch ambulances according to clinical needs of the patient, and other alternatives to this are discussed.
OBJECTIVES: To study the pattern of ingestion of radio-opaque foreign bodies in children and to ascertain the average transit time to passage per rectum in order to rationalise future management. METHODS: This prospective study consisted of 100 children under the age of 14 years, presenting to the accident and emergency department of the Royal Aberdeen Children's Hospital having ingested a radio-opaque foreign body. All children had initial radiography and were subsequently followed up in an attempt to ascertain the transit time of the foreign body. RESULTS: The majority of ingestions (73%) were in younger children (5 years and under). The time taken to pass the foreign bodies per rectum varied greatly. Almost half were never recovered. Transit time appears to increase with age. Three children were given oral cisapride to increase gastric motility after prolonged retention in the stomach. CONCLUSIONS: Transit time is very variable and cannot be predicted. Sifting of the stools is unpleasant and unhelpful. Repeat radiography should not be encouraged as this results in unnecessary radiation. Cisapride may be useful in cases where there is prolonged retention of a foreign body in the stomach. There may be an indication for routine use of cisapride in all cases of ingested foreign bodies, however further audit would be required.
Stroke is an important cause of morbidity and mortality. Often the first presentation of cerebrovascular disease is a TIA which will present to the A&E department. Patients who have had a TIA are at increased risk of stroke, myocardial infarction, and vascular death. The risk of stroke after a TIA is greatest in the first year (approximately 11.6%) with a risk of approximately 5.9% per year over the first five years. As the risk is highest in the first months following a TIA it is important that the patients are diagnosed accurately, investigated promptly, and referred appropriately for treatment in order that valuable time is not lost. For this reason A&E physicians have a valuable role in the initial assessment and management of the patient. It has been advocated that patients should be seen by a neurologist or physician with an interest in cerebrovascular disease within days of their symptoms and be prepared for surgery within two weeks after a TIA. While it is usually not possible to achieve this ideal, improved cooperation between A&E physicians and these neurologists, general physicians, and geriatricians should lead to the implementation of speedy efficient referral procedures which can only improve patient care. When you next see a patient with a TIA in the A&E department remember what they have to lose. Three questions relating to this article are: (1) How are TIAs subdivided and what clinical features allow this differentation? (2) What are the initial investigations that should be performed in A&E? (3) When are the risks of completed stroke greatest after a TIA? Enumerate these risks. How effective is aspirin at reducting this risks?
A case is described of acute torrential mitral regurgitation resulting from avulsion of both papillary muscles 12 hours after a blunt chest and abdominal injury. The intensive care and surgical management are discussed.
Flecainide acetate is a potent class 1C antiarrhythmic agent used mainly for the treatment of supraventricular arrhythmias. Acute overdose of this drug is rare but frequently fatal. The clinical course of a patient that ingested a large quantity of flecainide as a suicide attempt is described and current therapeutic strategies discussed.
Streptococcal myositis is a very rare bacterial infection of muscle with a high mortality. Diagnosis is difficult because of the paucity of clinical signs and symptoms at the onset. However, presentation of the disease appears to have changed over the last 50 years. A case of streptococcal myositis is presented (misdiagnosed as hamstring injury), which more closely reflects the current presentation of the disease. Some of the features that may help emergency clinicians to recognise the onset of the condition are highlighted.
